# GenderMag

## What is GenderMag?

The **GenderMag Methodology** aims to analyze and mitigate gender biases in users’ problem-solving interactions with software. It underscores the importance of accounting for gender differences in human-computer interaction (HCI) during the software design process.

**Process**

1. We identified two personas based on their familiarity with technology and their ability to embrace technological progress. The personas are:
   * Abi, who is either Abigail or Abishek, is 45 years old. She works as a homemaker, is literate, but not very tech- savvy. Her internet connectivity is moderate, and she does not have a personal phone.
   * Tim, who is either Timothy or Timara, a 24-year-old financial consultant, is literate, tech-savvy, and boasts excellent internet connectivity. Additionally, he owns the latest phone.
2. Examine the feature, systematically walk through the process, assess their information handling, and pinpoint any problems.

During the walkthrough, we pinpointed inclusivity concerns in the Inji Wallet app’s user interface and experience. Subsequently, we took steps to mitigate these issues, aiming to eliminate digital entry barriers.

As part of Phase1, below P1 items are fixed in the v0.11.0-Inji Wallet release:



<table><thead><tr><th width="108">Sl No</th><th>Problem statement</th><th>Solution</th><th>Jira number</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td><p>The term “scan” can be ambiguous because scanning a QR code within an app might result in a money transfer from a bank account. This perception could be influenced by cultural factors. Abi, instead of directly clicking on the “Scan” option, prefers to select her card and then look for a “Share” option. Unless external assistance is available, Abi will avoid using the “Scan” feature.</p><p>Without external assistance, unless there are instructions visibly posted on the wall, she might find it challenging to comprehend whether she needs to select the “scan” option.</p></td><td>The Scan Button in the Navigation Bar can now be referred to as “Share”.</td><td><p><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/browse/INJIMOB-725">INJIMOB-725</a></p><p><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/browse/INJIMOB-702">INJIMOB-702</a></p><p><br></p></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td><p>On the "Retrieve your ID" screen, instead of using "VID auto population," consider using "Download ID." This change will help avoid confusion for Abi, who might expect an explanation of what VID / UIN IDs are.</p><p>On the "Home with cards view," Abi might wonder why her card displays "Activation Pending," while the other card shows Activated for online login".</p></td><td><p>In the FAQ or Help section, provide information about the various types of IDs, their locations, and instructions on how to download them using different ID methods.</p><p>Provide additional information related to "Activation Pending," and ensure clear icon translations for "Activation Done" versus "Activation Pending".</p></td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/browse/INJIMOB-698">INJIMOB-698</a></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td><ol><li>When the user clicks on the "Add" button, the options "Generate your card" or "Retrieve your ID" might be confusing.</li><li>The description should also include an explanation of why the verification process is necessary.</li><li>When the user glances at the screen, the "AID" is not immediately evident.</li></ol></td><td><ol><li>Update main screen name to "Download your card".</li><li>Update main screen description to "Select ID type and enter the MOSIP provided UIN or VID you wish to download." (Also, with a reference to upcoming OTP screen).</li><li>Enhance the text to provide a heads up about the upcoming step of OTP verification, so that user is prepared to receive and enter the OTP.</li><li>Update bottom line text to "Don't have UIN / VID? Get it now using your AID."</li></ol></td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/browse/INJIMOB-697">INJIMOB-697</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

As part of Phase2, below P1, P2 items are fixed in the v0.12.0 release of Inji Wallet:

<table><thead><tr><th width="111">Sl No</th><th>Problem Statement</th><th>Solution</th><th>Jira number</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td><p>Screen name: Retrieve your UIN/VID  on clicking <a href="https://xd.adobe.com/view/ec0231bf-c4cf-43ce-a899-8130e809a6bf-b951/screen/203c248f-9782-4bca-b8b8-99344e453232/">Get it now using your AID</a> link</p><p><br></p><p>It is confusing for Abi as she has to walk through a lot of steps to get her card. Though it is mentioned as AID, she would be happy but may / may not move forward as it is going to get UIN but not a card. </p></td><td>Update screen name to "Get your UIN/VID." instead of Retrieve your UIN/VID </td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/issues/INJIMOB-843">INJIMOB-843</a></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td><p>The Resend Code is unclear in the OTP screen.</p><ol><li>The Resend Code Text can be more descriptive. “Resend OTP” would be more clear than “Resend code”</li><li>The Resend code is confusing as to whether it is clickable or not.</li></ol></td><td>Rename “Resend code” as “Resend OTP” </td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/issues/INJIMOB-843">INJIMOB-843</a></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Though Tim is tech savvy, Tim will be sort of puzzled why the app needs location access as well despite a lot of other permissions provided. Tim will be unhappy and question why they are required to provide location access in order to scan a QR code. </td><td><p>Description can be more indicative of the specific purpose of seeking location access.</p><p><br></p></td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/issues/INJIMOB-785">INJIMOB-785</a></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td><ol><li>Abi is not so familiar with tech, when the app says share a selfie, they might not know, face auth using her photo, is going in the background. she might think it will break her privacy.</li><li>Abi might be confused, as she cannot understand what is the next action to be done, from the instruction. it does not mention whether she has to click on the shutter button or it will take a picture automatically although she would perform the subgoal. Will it automatically click the selfie or do Abi need to click on the button?</li></ol></td><td><p>For problem statement 1:</p><ol><li>Provide assurance wrt Privacy</li><li>Terminology update: Face Authentication to Face Verification</li><li>Acquaint user with text about "Share with selfie" feature, informing user about face authentication - Through FAQs</li><li>Avoid usage of slang jargons like selfie → need confirmation from the product team on the alternative &#x3C;Sasi>: Let us retain the word as that is more relatable to all.</li></ol><p>For problem statement 2:</p><p>Enhance text: In the Face Verification screen, the text should be enhanced as "Hold the phone steady, keep your face focused in the centre and click on Capture" below the camera placeholder.</p><p><br></p></td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/issues/INJIMOB-784">INJIMOB-784</a></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>The description in the camera screen is not explaining about the sharing credential. Text near the scanner can mention about the “Hold the phone steady and scan the QR code to share your credential”. </td><td><ol><li>Enhance text in Share page while scanning QR code. Text near the scanner can mention about the “Hold the phone steady and scan the QR code to share your card."</li><li>Change CTA from "Scan" to "Share"</li></ol></td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/issues/INJIMOB-783">INJIMOB-783</a></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td><p>Unlock App screen:</p><p><br></p><p>Abi would be stressed if she doesn’t remember the passcode. As there is nothing on the screen to get help. She might not know what to do because she is risk averse.</p></td><td><p>Add text: Tap on the button to unlock you app with the PIN or biometrics - Text to be enhanced in the unlock screen to clearly call out on other options.</p><p><br></p><p>“To unlock the app securely, you can set up either biometric authentication, such as fingerprint or facial recognition or opt for a 6-digit Passcode for quick access.<br>Choose 'Use Biometrics' to enable biometric authentication or 'I'll Do Later' to set up a 6-digit passcode.”</p><p>CTAs:</p><p>Use Biometrics</p><p>I’ll Do Later</p><p><br></p></td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/browse/INJIMOB-778">INJIMOB-778</a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>During the VC sharing, the successful transfer screen closes in a split second leaving the user clueless on the action status. The transition was quick, and no document is shown after the successful transfer. hence Abi is not clear if the sharing is successful or not.</td><td>Consider having an Error screen with CTA, clearly indicating the next expected action > Retry</td><td><p><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/browse/INJIMOB-745">INJIMOB-745</a></p><p><br></p><p><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/browse/INJIMOB-680">INJIMOB-680</a></p></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td><p>No Information related to the selfie captured process was not conveyed to the users, even in the end screen. Selfie capture process does not relate back to the ID sharing process. No message regarding what happened with the selfie clicked.</p><p><br></p></td><td><p>Post face capture and before initiating the sharing process, inform users about successful face verification/match - But without any CTA.</p><p><br></p></td><td><a href="https://mosip.atlassian.net/issues/INJIMOB-722">INJIMOB-722</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

