# Virtual ID

## What is a Virtual ID
* During the allocation of the Unique Identification Number (UIN), the system also allocates a Virtual Identification Number (VID) to the individual. VID is an alternative to UIN and is a temporary number that can be used for authentications of an individual. The individual can provide the VID instead of UIN to authenticate themselves and protect their UIN from being accessed by someone else.

## TODO
## How does a Virtual ID Work? (link to blog)

## What are the types of Virtual ID?
MOSIP generates two types of VID such as Perpetual VID and Temporary VID.
 * Perpetual VID: Registration Processor will create a new perpetual VID once UIN is generated successfully.  
* Temporary VID: As the name goes, it is shortlived which expired after a pre-defined period after which a new temporary VID has to be re-generated.  Temporary VIDs are generated by residents using resident services.

## Benefits of a Virtual Id (link to blog)
* To safeguard the confidentiality of a UIN and for its security, Virtual ID (VID) service is provided.The virtual ID can be used for the purpose of authentication in the same way the UIN is used.

## Create VID
* An individual can request to generate a Virtual ID via Resident Service by providing his/her UIN. The system will first validate the individual's UIN, trigger an OTP to individual's registered mobile number and/or email ID, validate the OTP and then authenticate the individual. On successful authentication the VID is generated based on the VID policy of the respective Country. The system will also send a notification message to individual’s mobile number and/or email ID after a successful transaction or appropriate error message if the transaction was not successful.

## Revoke VID
* To prevent misuse of VID, an individual can request to revoke his/her VID using Resident Service if the individual feels his/her VID has been compromised. The individual provides the VID as input. The system will then validate the individual's VID, trigger an OTP to individual's registered mobile number and/or email ID, validate the OTP and then authenticate the individual. On successful authentication, the system revokes the provided VID. Based on the VID policy of the Country a new VID will be generated during revocation and provided to the individual on the registered mobile number and/or email ID. If validation fails, the system triggers the appropriate error message.

## Virtual Id Policy
* Based on the VID policy (defined by Country), an individual will be provided a VID during UIN registration and also he/she can create this using 'Resident Services'. The VID policy attributes defines the type of the VID, Country can name the VID as desired. VID policy constitutes time validity, no of instances, no of transactions, regeneration mode.

## Expiry of Virtual Id
* MOSIP also has a VID revoke service which will receive a VID and expire it. When received a request along with the VID, the service will change the status of the VID as “Expired”.

* MOSIP also has a batch Job to auto-expire VIDs and mark expired VIDs as to be available to be allocated again.

    All the VIDs will be marked as ‘Expired’ through the batch job based on the expiry period assigned to them
    All the VIDs which are in expired state for a configured amount of days should be marked as ‘Available’ through a daily batch job thus enabling re-usability of them


## API Details
* [API Documentation](Resident-Service-API-Documentation.md)

## TODO
* Configuration Parameters
    * List of parameters and how they alter the behaviour of the API

## TODO
## Links to related content
* Link to design documentation,
* Links to How To articles
