# Resident Mobile Application

## Overview
In Phase 1 the mobile application can be used by residents to securely store, share and receive digital credentials. The current version of this application supports only Android OS. This will later be extended to support iOS too.

The mobile application's repo is called [Inji](https://github.com/mosip/inji) and the corresponding backend that works as an intermediate between Inji and MOSIP platform is in [Mimoto repo](https://github.com/mosip/mimoto).

## Data model of digital credentials
The digital credentials generated by the mobile application follow the Verifiable Credentials data model. More details can be found [here](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#:~:text=A%20verifiable%20credential%20is%20a,can%20be%20about%20different%20subjects.)

## Generating and storing of credentials
A resident can generate a Verifiable Credential(VC) by either using a UIN or a VID. Detailed steps on generating and sharing credentials are given in the user guide [here](https://github.com/mosip/documentation/blob/1.2.0/docs/mobile-id-app-user-guide.md).

## Sharing of credential
In Phase 1 of the application, a VC is shared in peer to peer model. The data exchange between devices is done using Google Nearby Connections API. This API uses a combination of Bluetooth (BT), Bluetooth Low energy (BLE) and Wifi to achieve seamless, low-latency, high-throughput communications without requiring pairing of devices.


## How peer to peer connection established
A QR code is generated and displayed on the requesting party's mobile application. A sample QR code json content is given below

```
{
  "cid": "1ejpu",
  "pk": "819176777955C098B78BAF949084A4484AEC5A769CED2307D59E46DC85A0F758"
}
```
where ```cid``` is a randomly generated connection id and ```pk``` is a randomly generated public key.

Once a phone scans the QR code of the requesting party a connection is established between the two devices. When the requesting party is to connect to another device a new QR code is generated.




## Where to download resident mobile application?
Resident Mobile Application can be downloaded from [here](todo)
